---
layout: post
title:  "Using Drone GCS"
author: tal
categories: [ drone ]
tags: [drone, dronegcs]
image: assets/images/19.jpg
description: "This is the ground control station for the drone, this one contain the GUI logic (based on JFX2). This clients communicate with the drone server to get and store data. It is also work with the map viewer project to get map access, image processing project to have FPV and generic tools to get access to USB devices."
featured: true
hidden: false
toc: true
beforetoc: "This is the ground control station for the drone, this one contain the GUI logic (based on JFX2). This clients communicate with the drone server to get and store data. It is also work with the map viewer project to get map access, image processing project to have FPV and generic tools to get access to USB devices."
rating: 4.5
---

The following directory hold the DroneGCS project files for the GUI and Controller components. It consist of code, drivers and executable jars directory. In order to have a better understanding of the code simply dig into it. The controller components exist in the GUI Plugin is responsible of two things, the first, communicate with the drone itself, running mission, flight control and many other nice utility. It second hat is to communicate with the server out there in the cloud, the server responsible of saving you configuration, saving your mission and perimeters. The server gives you a private DB to work on until you save it to the public DB.

If you are a user who wishes to fly you drone and enjoy this fully featured Ground Control Station, simple download the relevant files from <a href="https://github.com/taljmars/DroneGCS/tree/master/ClientInstallation">here</a>, Run Deploy.bat and enjoy your newly GCS, this client require an internet connection. In case you wish to use local server (For having better performance and offline flight, download DroneServer as <a href="https://github.com/taljmars/DroneServer/tree/master/ServerInstallation">well</a> and follow it installation guidelines) Last but not least, in case you wish to install a standalone version which include both client and server in a single installer please refere to <a href="https://github.com/taljmars/StandaloneDroneGCS">this</a> repository

# Requirements
Software requirements:
<ul>
  <li>Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10</li>
  <li>Java 1.8</li>
</ul>

Hardware requirements:
<ul>
  <li>USB dongle to communicate with the drone</li>
</ul>

# Instructions

1. Download the DroneGCS application using this <a href="https://github.com/taljmars/DroneGCS/raw/master/ClientInstallation/Windows/DroneGCS-win-x64.zip">link</a>
2. Extract the zip file to any directory you wish
3. Navigate to the directory you've just created
4. Click on the <b>run.bat</b> file to start the application

# Offline vs. Online mode

DroneGCS flight controller can store all your flights details, mission, permiters and history in a remote server. this can be later on be accessed
from any device providing the username and password. this file mode call <b>Online Mode</b>.
If you don't want to access this DB nor you don't have any internet access at your flying site - <b>Offline Mode</b> is the answer.
Under this mode you will find the same granulariy as you have in Online mode when it comes to drone controller, however, services such as mission storing,
flight history, change log and many more will not be available.

# Resources
- The project is based on Spring framework (4.3.3), a good info about the release can be found in this <a href="http://repo.spring.io/release/org/springframework/spring/4.3.3.RELEASE/">link</a>
- The map resource and main code section are being supported using JMapViewer project of OSM (<a href="http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/JMapViewer">OpenStreetMap</a>)

