---
layout: post
title:  "F450 Multi-Rotor Drone Spec and Performance"
author: tal
categories: [ drone, tutorial ]
tags: [drone, dronegcs]
image: assets/images/18.jpg
description: "A well described guide of the F450 drone with all it components and several preformance tests"
featured: true
toc: true
hidden: false
beforetoc: "Flying a drone is an exhilarating experience! The thrill of flying and shooting in epic locations completely immersed in the pilot's view is hard to beat. It is something that many people are keen to take up however they often are unclear on how to build a drone, where to start. The biggest obstacle for many is getting their hands on their first drone with many hobbyists opting to build their own.
<br/>
<br/>
To build your own drone can feel like an intimidating task, and there’s a mountain of information to wade through before anything starts making sense. Fortunately, it’s not as hard as it sounds and with a little guidance you’ll be in the air in no time whilst picking up some practical skills! Initially, the idea might sound scary but anyone armed with the right information will be able to get on and do it relatively hassle free.
<br/>
<br/>
Building a drone is not necessarily a cheap thing to do, not as it sound though. most of the people who tries to build drones find it as a good hobby and find themselves checking and buying new gear and cool electrics all the time, therefore, sometime, buying a 'ready-made' drone will end up cheaper.
"
rating: 4.5
---


# Drone Specifications and Anatomy

The drone structure can be separated to several component each one can be replaced or upgrade depend on your needs.

## Basic Components

### Frame

The frame is the main structure/skeleton of the drone, frame shape can be changed depend on the amount of engines and the payload your would like to carry.

### Motors

Motors provide the power to lift and push the drone up to the sky. the minimal amount of motors per multi-rotor can be 3 and the big ones can even have 8 engines.

### ESCs

ESC stands for <b>E</b>ngine <b>S</b>peed <b>C</b>ontroller, ESCs controls the current flow to each of the engines which translates to engine speed (RPMs). Every vehicle driven but electricity has ESC per motor.

### Flight Controller

Flight controller is the most sophisticated component in any drone. The flight controller get input from several sensors (GPS, Barometer, etc..) and translate it to commands to each one of the ESCs together with the radio transmitter input.

### PDB

PDB stands for Power Distribution Board, PDB is a tiny board connecting the battery to any of the drone electronics.
Many frames have an electric circuit as part of the plastic hold which give you the capability to bridge between the PDB and the rest of the electronic such as the ESCs. 

### Propellers

The 'wings' that gives the actual movement through the air. drone usually have pairs of propellers which moves in different directions, e.g. one pair clockwise (CW) and the other pairs are counter-clockwise (CCW).

### Battery

The 'fuel' of any vehicle driven by electricity. Usually, the battery type is LiPo with 2-4 cells.

### Radio Transmitter

Remote control / Transmitter is an electronic device which produces radio wave with data regarding flight instructions and orientation to be able to control the drone movement

### Radio Receiver

The receiver is installed on the drone and responsible of getting  direction instructions from the transmitter to push it to the flight controller

<br/>
The list above is a must for any multi-rotor aerial, it the basic things you need to got out there and fly it. 
Although such a flight can be really nice it is still not what we expect to see or experience when having flying a drone.
The list below is the extra staff you need in order have a joyful flight with you drone:

## Extra Components

### FPV Camera

A simple camera to share the drone point of view

### Video Transmitter (VTX)

A video transmitter installed on the drone.

### Video Receiver (VRX) / Goggles

Goggles/Video receiver allows you to the FPV camera installed on the drone

### Telemetry Transmitter

Telemetry module is responsible of sending data regarding the ariel vehicle itself, e.g temperature, speed, position..

### Telemetry Receiver

Same telemetry module also have a receiver which is responsible of receiving the data for the drone. the unit usually installed in some GCS (ground
control station or an advanced remote control)


# Building a Drone

The best way to learn how to build a drone is to follow youtube lessons, e.g.
<p><iframe style="width:100%;" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/wkl2uH80UJE?rel=0&showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

---

# F450 Mark-1

This model is a great one for newbies, it have all the things you need to give you a great flying experience. it fairly cheap, easy and safe for flight.
As a newbie, you will probably need to buy some more gear such as connectors, plugs or simple wires so you can soldier if needed.

<li><b>Frame: </b>F450 Standard frame (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Motors: </b>4x Hobbypower 2212 920KV Brushless Motor (eBay)</li>
<li><b>ESCs: </b>4x HobbyPower 30A Brushless ESC (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Flight Controller: </b>APM Arducopter 2.8 (eBay)</li>
<li><b>PDB: </b>Standard PDB comes with the a frame kit</li>
<li><b>Propellers: </b>T1045 Nylons 2x CW, 2x CCW (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Battery: </b>LiPo 3 cells of Turnigy (Local Shop)</li>
<li><b>Radio Transmitter: </b>Flysky FS-T6 2.4GHz 6CH (Mode 2) (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Radio Reciever: </b>Flysky FS T6 FS-R6B 2.4Ghz 6CH (comes with trasmitter kit) (eBay)</li>
<li><b>FPV Camera: </b>1000TVL Mini FPV Camera 2.8mm 3MP PAL/NTSC (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Video Transmitter: </b>TS-832 5.8Ghz (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Video Reciever: </b>RC-832 Boscam FPV 5.8G 600mW 32CH (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Telemetry Transmitter: </b>3DR Radio Telemetry Kit 433/915Mhz Module for APM 2.5/2.6/2.8 (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Telemetry Reciever: </b>3DR Radio Telemetry Kit 433/915Mhz Module for APM 2.5/2.6/2.8 (eBay)</li>
<br/>

<u>Price</u>: <br/>
285$ ,basic flight gear (w/o camera, etc..)<br/>
70$ ,extras (video and telemtry)<br/>
<u>Total Weight</u>: 1.4Kg<br/>
<u>Lifting Weight</u>: 0.5Kg<br/>
<u>Flight Time</u>: <span class="spoiler">7-17 Minutes</span><br/>
<u>Ranges</u>: <span class="spoiler">50-120m</span> (flying with clear sky and no obstacles will bring you to <span class="spoiler">120m</span>)

## Connectivity and Frequencies

As you can see, there are many different components on top of this tiny Mark-1 aerial. putting a side the maniacal parts (frame, engine, ESC, etc..)
, we left with components whose responsible for communications, those can be grouped to 3 families, each uses different frequencies do they cannot interfere with one to another.

### Flight Control - 2.4GHz
This channel is usually <b>ONE-DIRECT</b>, means that the <b>Transmitter</b> signals the <b>Receiver</b> on the drone about the gimbals direction or any switch state on the remote controller.<br/>
The <b>Receiver</b> is connected to the <b>Flight Controller</b> and push the input directly to it. Than, the <b>Flight Controller</b> emits signals to other components connected to it or change it internal state.<br/>
Mark-1 has 6 channels. 4 Channels are responsible for gimbals position such as Thrust, Yaw and two for Tilt. The other two channels can be used for any other feature hosted by the <b>Flight Controller</b>.
A good practice is to set one of the two extra channels to <u>RTL</u> (Return to launch) command for safety, so you can always switch this mode on and find your drone fly back to his launch position without the need to direct it.<br/>
<ul>
Hardware components:
	<ul>
		<li>Flight Controller</li>
		<li>Radio Transmitter</li>
		<li>Radio Receiver</li>
	</ul>
</ul>
	
### Telemetry - 433MHz / 900MHz
This channel usually <b>BI-DIRECTIONAL</b>, unlike the Flight Control channel, these components can actual talk one to another.<br/>
This is the channel were all the data about the drone and the <u>GCS</u> (Ground Control Station) is being sent.<br/>
Some of the <a href="https://github.com/taljmars/DroneGCS">GCSs</a> have the capability to control the drone via this channel without the need of a Flight Control channel. It very nice capability but it always good
to have Flight Control channel active just for redundancy, otherwise, it's <font color="Red">dangerous!</font>
Mark-1 have <b>Telemetry Transceiver</b> connected to it <b>Flight Controller</b>, by doing so, the <b>Flight Controller</b> can broadcast
Every information its needed (battery, position, time, engine status, temperature and signals power). Or, alternatively, can receive information and data from the <a href="https://github.com/taljmars/DroneGCS">GCS</a>.
The GCS will use a similar transceiver on it end.
<ul>
Hardware components:
	<ul>
		<li>Flight Controller</li>
		<li>Telemetry Transmitter (technically Transceiver)</li>
		<li>Telemetry Receiver (technically Transceiver)</li>
	</ul>
</ul>

### Video - 5.8 GHz
The video system is an isolated system when it comes to drone functionality, it never interfer nor share information with the other two system.<br/>
Even if the drone crashes you may still get clean signal of video. This channel is always <b>ONE-DIRECT</b>, The <b>VTX</b> (installed on the drone) send video stream to the remote <b>VRX</b>.<br/>
The <b>VRX</b> can be connected to a TV, goggles, laptop, cellphone or any GCS. It completely up to you.
<ul>
Hardware components:
	<ul>
		<li>Video Transmitter</li>
		<li>Video Receiver</li>
	</ul>
</ul>

## Getting Video and Telemetry Stream

The best way to learn about Mark-1 is to connect it <a href="https://github.com/taljmars/DroneGCS">Drone GCS</a>. this GCS will give you video, telemetry data and full control (including keyboard flight) from you laptop. <br/>
However, in order to make it work you will need to purchase another component named <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WQkwbU2L5xs">EasyCap</a> was  (~5$) which helps you to convert Mark-1 video stream to USB connector.
If you don't want any telemetry and need only video stream than you can use your cellphone without using any GCS. However, purchesing EasyCap to stream the video to your phone is still necessary. <br>

Goggles Instructions are not available, you, reader, if you have information about the setup, please share and it will publish here - Thank you.


## Post Flights Conclusions
Mark-1 model is a very nice one, it simple, easy to play and modify. 
The flight is very smooth and nice, it reaches really high speed for beginners. The speed and turns are not "edgiee" as a race drone but more like photography drone.

Often, when reaching approximately the maximal range of the <b>Flight Controller</b> connectivity issue start to appears in the GCS.
The link became weak and signal often lost. so it seems we are at the end of both <b>Flight Controller</b> and <b>Telemetry Transceivers</b>

Video links seems to be fine for now.

---
# F450 Mark-2 (Yet to test and update)

Here comes the Tarannis era!<br/>following the conclusion of Mark-1, we now understand that the first barrier that needs be crossed is the Radio Transmitter.
Following a lot of research on the web and questioning experience pilots, Tarannis should give us a good "jump" ahead, it should take us to approximately 1.5Km (field-wise).

<font color="LightGray">
<li><b>Frame: </b>F450 Standard frame (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Motors: </b>4x Hobbypower 2212 920KV Brushless Motor (eBay)</li>
<li><b>ESCs: </b>4x HobbyPower 30A Brushless ESC (eBay)</li>
</font>
<li><b>Flight Controller: </b>Pixhawk PX4 V2.4.8 32Bit ARM Flight Controller (eBay)</li>
<li><b>PDB: </b>Standard PDB comes with the a Pixhawk kit</li>
<font color="LightGray">
<li><b>Propellers: </b>T1045 Nylons 2x CW, 2x CCW (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Battery: </b>LiPo 3 cells of Turnigy (Local Shop)</li>
</font>
<li><b>Radio Transmitter: </b>Taranis (Local Shop)</li>
<li><b>Radio Reciever: </b>Receiver that comes with trasmitter kit - FS-R6B (eBay)</li>
<font color="LightGray">
<li><b>FPV Camera: </b>1000TVL Mini FPV Camera 2.8mm 3MP PAL/NTSC (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Video Transmitter: </b>TS-832 5.8Ghz (eBay)</li>
<li><b>Video Reciever: </b>RC-832 Boscam FPV 5.8G 600mW 32CH (eBay)</li>
</font>
<li><b>Telemetry Transmitter: </b>902-928MHz RDF900 915Mhz Long Range Radio Modem Remote Transceiver & Antenna</li>
<li><b>Telemetry Reciever: </b>902-928MHz RDF900 915Mhz Long Range Radio Modem Remote Transceiver & Antenna</li>
<br/>

<u>Price</u>: Unknown<br/>
<u>Total Weight</u>: 1.4Kg<br/>
<u>Lifting Weight</u>: 0.5Kg<br/>
<u>Flight Time</u>: <span class="spoiler">7-17 Minutes</span><br/>
<u>Ranges</u>: Unknown

## Conclutions

Yet to come...
